Hi we didn't this lecture we can see what is GitHub and how we can use it in our projects.
And also we're going to see how to use terminal which is a good skill for us.
So in here we have the first commit second commits and the initial comments.
So we can go back and forth whenever we want using this source tree application.
Right.
So what happens if I want to add this to a good hub so that I can share my codes to the other developers
or I can collaborate with other developers to work on my projects simultaneously.
So after you create that and sign up you sign and I with your account you can easily create new repositories
need projects in your GitHub account and you can share your projects on github.
And it's not only saving the project called Zeke's saving the Goetz versions as well.
Right.
So we can't track what's going on inside of a project by tracking the gifts.
Of course you have to make sure that your deed hub is a count connected to your source tree application
in order to do what I'm about to show you.
So if you click on new to create a new repository meaning a new project on Github you have to choose
a repository name.
So I'm going to go for a good test and if you see this or Cape then here it means that it's okay to
go.
And that's a good name.
And under here you will see two options one is public and the other one's private.
So public means everyone can see your project on GitHub and private means no one can see your project
on Github unless you invite them.
But in order to make this private do you have to have a premium github account.
So you have to pay for it.
OK.
So we're good to go with public anyway.
And in here you will see initialize this repository with the read me option.
And this will create the read me file that you can write the instructions but I'm not going to do that.
I'm going to show you how to manually do that later on.
And if you create the repository you will see a screen like this in the screen you will find some comments
that you have to run on your terminal and you have to run this comments on your projects folder.
So in our case get test project folder and if you have never worked with terminal before don't worry
I'm going to show you have to do that.
And what's a terminal really.
So click comment on space on your keyboard.
OK.
So let me put everything down for a while.
So we have a clear screen and hit command face on your keyboard so it will bring up the search menu.
And in here I'm going to write terminal.
So as you can see this is the terminal that we are looking for when you see it just click on it and
it will open a terminal for you.
So let me zoom in a little bit so you can see it better.
OK.
So you can come over here to view and say bigger.
And then once you are good to go you can stop but I'm actually going to make it a little bit bigger
so you can see better.
So this is the terminal.
This is very very wrong comments.
So then we type a comment.
The computer the Mac OS will execute that comment for us.
Of course if the comment is valid and if you have worked with Linux before I I am pretty sure that you're
familiar with this kind of concept.
But if you're not.
Don't worry.
I'm just going to show you the basics.
So for example if you say clear and hit enter it will clear the screen so clear is that comment.
So it executed the comment and now we're getting the result out of it.
So in this command line in this terminal I can write whatever I want as long as it makes sense.
For example if I say unless it means list the folders and files that I'm currently in.
So I'm in my user folder.
So I mean the teal folder and inside of that folder I have this folders and files so I can move in or
out of this folder by using a command called C D.
For example if I want to go to documents or downloads I can use the C.D. comment and I can browse to
these folders in my terminals.
So I have to write exactly it is as it is shown in here.
So with a capitalized D for example and if I do lower case deeds won't work.
For example if you say C.D. downloads it will change directory so C.D. stands for changing directory
to downloads folder.
Now I'm inside the downloads folder if I say less right now I'm going to see the files and folders in
the downloads folder.
So if I open the downloads folder from here for example this is exactly what I'm seeing right.
So these are the files and folders inside my downloads folder.
So that's the list that I'm getting.
So I want to go into Io complete and then get test project because that's where I should run.
These comments that are given to me by you hop in in order to go that's file I'm going to say IRS and
be very that we have a space in here.
So in order to do this I'm going to hit tab on my keyboard and it will auto complete it for me.
So as you can see we have to use a backslash before a space.
If you don't remember that you can just type the first three characters off your folder and hit tab.
It's the lotto completed for you.
Now when I'm inside I was complete.
Now I'm going to write get and it hit tab.
And as you can see it auto completed it for me.
Now I'm inside of get test project.
Now if I run there less I will see the available files and folders in here like this.
So that's where I want to run these comments that are given to me by GitHub in order to connect my github
project GitHub repository to my local file.
Okay so that I can push all of these files and folders to my github repository.
So if you zoom in a little bit you will see some commands in here.
So these are basic Unix or Linux or Mac OS comments.
So echo means write something.
And these two braces means write this get test inside of read me file okay.
And this means that initialize the get process and then we going to add an add read me file to our guests.
Okay so this is where we create the read me file and we are going to commit this for the first time
so it's going to write first comment and then we're going to connect as you test that get this repository
to our local file and then re gonna push the origin master.
And in order to run all of these commands you can just copy them and paste in your terminal or you can
just write one by one.
It really doesn't matter but I believe we we can just copy them in order to be practical here.
So let's go for copy and let's come here and right click cancel pastes and here you go.
I believe I should hit enter one more time to run the last comment and I'm pushing the repository to
pushing the project to my repository right now.
And once it's done I can click over here to see my project is already here.
So that's good.
As you can see we have created this project Twain five trading 1 minutes ago and we have changed this
file eleven minutes ago.
Okay.
And if you come to we controller that's with you will see the print yet and print get to.
So that's cool.
And remember we have done this commits in the source tree if we haven't done any comments yet it will
push the original we've controller files so it will just push the initial commit and then we re gonna
have to come here commit the changes and then push this man really from the source tree.
So let me see me let me actually show you how this goes because you might need it to push the changes
to the github account later on.
For example let me bring in my let me bring up my project file from here and I'm going to add the G3
I'm not going to prepare for anything let me delete this and I'm just going to print get three yep that's
it and I'm going to save this OK once I do that it should reflect on the source tree and as you can
see it says that there are uncommitted changes so let's commit those changes and say terse comments
and let's commit and now we FISA push it will push my project to my github repository.
OK so that's a push and click OK.
And of course in order to do that I'm going to have to give my password here and this is not my github
password.
This is my local computer password.
It's going to take you the hub from my key chain and push it the project push the project for me.
And as you can see change is change.
Twenty nine seconds echo and we see the get three right now.
So it's kind of cool we can see all the changes we can see.
Why then did we do the changes.
What did we change and everything and we can go back and forth with being comments anytime we want.
So working with GID is actually kind of cool.
So if you're a developer or you're a freelancer it doesn't matter you're going to be needing it eventually.
So I suggest you work with gifts if you're working on an important project so that you can go back and
save your project if something fails or just use get to share it on GitHub to collaborate with other
developers or share your code with everyone in the world.
So that's it for right now we're going to stop here and continue within the next lecture.